hey this is presto Walker let's consider
geometric series which has K terms and a
common ratio R so we start out with 1
and then we're going to multiply that to
get the next term which is R we then
multiply R by the common ratio R again
to get R squared and we continue and we
keep adding terms all the way until we
get to the K term which is R to the
power of K minus 1 to find the sum we do
a neat little trick we multiply the sum
by the common ratio R look at what this
will do to each term the first term 1
becomes R the second term R becomes R
squared and pattern continues we've
essentially shifted over the summation
and we get one more new term R to the
power of K we now subtract the second
equation from the first this will cancel
out many terms in particular we cancel
out the ars we cancel out the R squares
we cancel out all of these middle terms
and we cancel out r to the power of k
minus 1 when we subtract the two
equations the only terms that survive
are 1 and minus R to the power of K we
now factor S sub K on the left hand side
and then we divide both sides by 1 minus
R and that's the formula that we want
the sum of a geometric series will be
equal to a fraction where the numerator
is 1 minus R to the power of K and the
denominator is 1 minus R sometimes it'll
be convenient to multiply the numerator
and denominator by negative 1 and that's
the formula used in this video which is
R to the power of K minus 1 all over R
minus 1 one more note let's suppose we
have a geometric series that starts out
with some other term a we then
essentially multiplied each term by a so
that will also multiply our sum by a so
these would be our formulas if our
geometric series started out with the
term a for completeness I'll mention
that if we were dealing with in
finit series if our common ratio has an
absolute value of less than one then we
could find the sum of the infinite
series by taking the limit as K goes to
infinity and this will become the
well-known formula of the sum of the
geometric series which is a divided by 1
minus R thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math you can catch around my
blog my dear decisions that you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch around social media at
pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description